Hi, friends.
Welcome to Perdido Bay Methodist Church's podcast on the Gospel of Matthew.
My name is Scott Hong.
Hi, I'm Dudley.
Thanks for joining us.
Today is Friday, March the 6th.
March the 6th.
And today we're finishing up Jesus' sermon about the end times.
We are reading Matthew chapter 24
verse 15 through verse 35.
This is really a part of extended sermon that Jesus began in the temple, on the temple mount, and now he continues it on the mount of Olives.
Jesus talked about the destruction of the temple, Dudley, and then the disciples, they want to know, what is this going to be?
Give us the time I would.
How would we do ready?
Yeah.
And so Jesus says, you know, just watch.
Beware.
Kind of keep your eyes open, he says, at the beginning.
watch, but then he talks about how they're always going to be wars and rumors and wars.
Don't get upset about that.
He talks about how you're going to be persecuted because your faith in me.
He talks about the desolating sacrilege that's put in the temple.
He talks about coming of his coming again.
When the Son of Man comes again, the end of time, when heaven and earth will pass away,
He talks about all that, but he doesn't give an answer.
He doesn't say what he says, but about that day and hour, no one knows.
Neither the angels of heaven nor the son, but only the father.
And he says, keep awake, keep awake, keep watching, keep awake.
Be like the good servants who
are doing what their master is asking to do, not the bad servant who thinks the master is never coming home, so the bad servant gets drunk and starts beating up the other servants.
And so when the master comes home, he's in trouble, but no, be like the good servant.
Be faithful with what God has given you so that when he comes back, say, yeah, good and faithful servant, well done.
So Dudley, what do you glean from this chapter?
I think that we always want to know
when it's like early in acts they ask Jesus when are you at this time going to restore Israel when is this going to happen and then in this chapter they're saying when is this we want to know maybe to be in control if we feel we have the information we can be in control you know if we know it's going to be this date then I can start getting ready later instead of now and
Yeah, Jesus says, you'll be ready all the time.
Be ready and live faithfully all the time.
Yeah, I think it's like this too.
I was thinking of a conversation I had with someone recently that Jesus says we are born again.
So we're born into a family.
So we take on those family traits.
We look like our parents, our ancestors, and we just become
who we are, and in the first birth, that's just natural, but the second birth is following Jesus, and it says that we walk by faith.
We don't always know every calendar date for everything.
Yeah, we live in the present moment.
We start looking like Jesus.
We start resembling Him, and we're faithful while we do.
We know that this world and the things of this world are gonna come to an end.
And that's actually good news for those who are suffering out.
thinking about the situation I ran now.
And for years, Christians in Iran have been horribly persecuted.
They've been suffering.
And Jesus says, you know, the suffering will one day end.
But meanwhile, be faithful with what I've given you.
Be like the good servants.
Yeah.
I think he's interested in us trusting in him.
listening and looking for his return.
But it's not really our responsibility.
Our responsibility is like you're saying is just to be in with Jesus to be ready when he comes back.
Don't be like beating the other servants or getting into all these squabbles doing these or even trying to affect different change.
We can't affect much change except
what He's empowered us to do.
And so that just calls us to live in a relationship with Him.
Now, I want to know what's happening and I want to know when it's going to happen.
Sure.
But we almost can't unless He just reveals it.
And one day the ultimate revelation is coming.
One day it'll come.
When Jesus talks about the end time, He's not trying to satisfy the curiosity of idle people who just want to sit around, well, tell us what happens.
He is giving the words to encourage his followers and to remind them to be focused on the tasks that he has given.
We were talking before, Dudley, that sometimes tough words are not easy to hear, but Jesus will not sugarcoat truth.
He won't avoid heart truth, but he's telling us this stuff so that we will be ready and prepared and thus experience
life.
I mean, these words are all meant to lead us to life.
Yeah, the hard truth that we need to hear is actually, and we don't like it at the time, but it's actually a safeguard for us.
The hard truth usually is me getting out of a destructive situation or a problem or maybe hurting others.
The hard truth brings a need to change.
It brings a need to change.
So we don't do stupid foolish things like
getting drunk and beating up the other servants.
That's right.
And then being surprised when the Master finally shows up.
You know, it reminds me, because all of this is wrapped in the grace of God and what He's done.
And His grace is saving us, is working on us, and we will ultimately be out of here.
And so that's God's working in us.
I'm reminded of one of my teachers, Ms. Hamilton,
back when I was in school, I was usually doing pretty good.
But in this instance, I had not made a good grade and it was going to affect some things.
And she called me up to her desk and showed me my grades.
And then she, as I was watching, she changed the number and made it a little bit better.
She didn't overdo it, she didn't under, but she gave me something I didn't deserve.
Just a couple of points to
maybe encourage me maybe to keep going on the journey, keep trying something.
She graded me on a curve in that instance.
Yeah, you did deserve it, but she imputed her righteousness onto you.
I deserved worse.
Yeah.
And that's kind of like with Christ, he imputes us, his righteousness on us.
We are, yeah, declared to be God's beloved children.
So
The end times, all this is not something we need to be afraid of.
It's something that, but we need to be aware that it's coming, that the things of this world will pass away.
Heaven and earth will pass away, Jesus says, but my words will not pass away.
Yeah, and that's good news.
It's good to not have to know everything.
Sometimes I was talking with someone who recently, a friend of mine, he's changing jobs.
He's getting better paid, but he's having less responsibility.
This new job, he doesn't have to do this and do that and to know everything.
But he's getting the better paycheck.
And that's similar.
We don't have to know everything.
We don't have to do this.
There's a freedom and joy that comes with it.
And it has a great reward for us, but we don't have to know everything.
It's kind of the same picture, and I'm thankful that I don't have to know everything.
Because if I did, I still probably
would do something to goof it up.
Yeah.
Thank you, Dudley.
And thank you, friends, for listening.
Have a wonderful weekend.
God bless you.